DOCS -7812 4.3 DW period-datetime-kt (#1327)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime-3: modules/ROOT/pages/dataweave-types.adoc

[[dw_type_dates_period]]
=== Period

> A period represents an amount of time and has the form:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `Period` represents an amount of time. The type takes the the following form:
```

> A `Period` represents an amount of time. The type takes the following form:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Period` represents an amount of time. The type takes the following form:
```

- `P[n]Y[n]M[n]DT[n]H[n]M[n]S`
- `P<date>T<time>``

Where the [n] is replaced by the value for each of the date and time elements that follow the [n].

> Period has two subcategories:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Period` has two subcategories:
```

* `DatePeriod` +

>  A date-based amount of time, for example 1 year, 2 months, 3 days. Because these expressions are date-based they cannot be converted to milliseconds, for example a month doesn't specify if it is a month of 31 days or not. Similarly applies to year as it can be a leap year. The data express just an amount of date. In DataWeave the syntax is `|P1Y|`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 A date-based amount of time, for example, 1 year, 2 months, 3 days. Because these expressions are date-based, they cannot be converted to milliseconds. For example, a month does not specify whether it is a month of 31 days or not, nor does a year specify whether it is a leap year. The data express just an amount of date. In DataWeave, the syntax is `|P1Y|`.
```

Reviewer: "an amount of date." needs to change, but not sure exactly how to phrase. Perhaps Kim can help.

>  A date-based amount of time, for example, 1 year, 2 months, 3 days. Because these expressions are date-based, they cannot be converted to milliseconds. For example, a month does not specify whether it is a month of 31 days or not, nor does a year specify whether it is a leap year. The data express just an amount of date. In DataWeave, the syntax is `|P1Y|`.

Reviewer 3: `The data expresses`

Author: Updated

>  A date-based amount of time, for example, 1 year, 2 months, 3 days. Because these expressions are date-based, they cannot be converted to milliseconds. For example, a month does not specify whether it is a month of 31 days or not, nor does a year specify whether it is a leap year. The data expresses just an amount of date. In DataWeave, the syntax is `|P1Y|`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A date-based amount of time, for example, 1 year, 2 months, and 3 days. Because the number of days in a month or a year varies, these expressions cannot be converted to milliseconds. In DataWeave, the syntax is `|P1Y|`.
```
Did you intend three separate examples above, or one example that comprises 1 year plus 2 months plus 3 days? It's a little confusing, because days are also included in duration, because they CAN be converted to milliseconds....
Clarify.
Also...is converting to seconds or milliseconds the goal for Period values?

Reviewer 2: And...should we use "convert" here when later text uses "coerce"?

I know you do not have time for it now, but I wonder if we want to reorganize this whole set of topics into "Date-Based and Time-Based Periods, and then move around texts so that there is one subtopic for each?

* `Duration` +

> A time-based amount of time, for example 1 second, 2 hours, 2 days. These expressions can be represented in seconds or milliseconds. In DataWeave the syntax is `|PT1H|`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A time-based amount of time, for example, 1 second, 2 hours, 2 days. These expressions can be represented in seconds or milliseconds. In DataWeave, the syntax is `|PT1H|`.
```

> A time-based amount of time, for example, 1 second, 2 hours, 2 days. These expressions can be represented in seconds or milliseconds. In DataWeave, the syntax is `|PT1H|`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A time-based amount of time, for example, 1 second, 2 hours, or 2 days, each of which can be represented in seconds or milliseconds. In DataWeave, the syntax is `|PT1H|`.
```

- `M` is the minute designator (e.g. `|PT1M|`)
- `S` is the second designator (e.g. `|PT1S|`)

> `DatePeriod` is useful to operate date manipulation such as addition or subtraction. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`DatePeriod` is useful for date manipulation, such as addition or subtraction. +
```

> `DatePeriod` is useful for operate date manipulation, such as addition or subtraction. +

Reviewer 3: `is useful for date manipulation`

> The following example shows how to subtract one year from a date using `DatePeriod`. The return type is a new `Date`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to subtract one year from a date using `DatePeriod`. The return type is a new `Date` value:
```

> The following example shows how to subtract one year from a date using `DatePeriod`. The return type is a new Date:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to subtract one year from a date using `DatePeriod`. The return type is a new `Date`:
```

> The following example shows how to subtract one year from a date using `DatePeriod`. The return type is a new `Date`:

Reviewer 3: `substract`?

Author: Indeed `substract` is obsolete, it not used anymore.

.Source
[source,dataweave,linenums]
----
output application/dw
---
|2003-10-01| - |P1Y|
----

.Output
[source,dataweave,linenums]
----
|2002-10-01|
----

> `Duration` is useful as a result of a `Date` to `Date` subtraction so the amount of time between those two dates can be inferred. +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Duration` is useful when you want to subtract one `Date` value from another to determine the amount of time between the two dates. +
```

Reviewer 2: I wonder if the usefulness of each method should accompany its relative definition, earlier?

> `Duration` is useful as a result of a Date to Date subtraction so it can be inferred in the amount of time between these two dates. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Duration` is useful for results of Date to Date subtractions because it can be inferred as the amount of time between two dates. +
```

> `Duration` is useful as a result of a `Date` to `Date` subtraction so it can be inferred in the amount of time between these two dates. +

Reviewer 3: `so the amount of time between those two dates can be inferred`

Author: Updated

> The following example shows how the result of subtracting two `Date` returns a `Duration`:

Reviewer 2: Is this what we really mean?
```suggestion
The following example shows how subtracting one `Date` value from another returns a `Duration` value:
```

> The following example shows how the result of subtracting two Date returns a `Duration`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how the result of subtracting two `Date` values returns a `Duration`:
```

> The following example shows how the result of subtracting two `Date` returns a `Duration`:

Reviewer 3: `substracting`?

Author: Same as before.

.Source
[source,dataweave,linenums]
----
output application/dw
---
|2003-11-01| - |2003-10-01|
----

.Output
[source,dataweave,linenums]
----
|PT744H|
----

> ==== Period Coercion

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
==== DatePeriod Coercion
```

> As `DatePeriod` is date-based it can be coerced to Number with different date based units such as `years` or `months`. +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because a `DatePeriod` value is date-based, it can be coerced to `Number` date-based units, such as `years` or `months`. +
```

> As `DatePeriod` is date-based it can be coerced to number with different date based units such as: "years" or "month". +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because `DatePeriod` is date-based, this type can be coerced to a `Number` with different date-based units, such as `years` or `months`. +
```

> As `DatePeriod` is date-based it can be coerced to number with different date based units such as `years` or `months`. +

Reviewer 3: `Number`

> The following example shows how to coerce a `DatePeriod` to a Number using different units:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to coerce a `DatePeriod` to a `Number` by using different units:
```

> The following example shows how to coerce a `DatePeriod` to a `Number` by using different units:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to coerce a `DatePeriod` value to a `Number` value by using different units:
```

.Source
[source,dataweave,linenums]
----
output application/json
---
{
 years:  |P1Y12M| as Number {unit: "years"},
 months: |P8Y12M| as Number {unit: "months"}
}
----

.Output
[source,json,linenums]
----
{
  "years": 2,
  "months": 108
}
----

==== Duration Coercion

> As `Duration` is time-based it can be coerced to a number with different time based units such as: "nanos", "milliseconds", "seconds", "hours" and "days".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because `Duration` is time-based, this type can be coerced to a `Number` with different time-based units, such as `nanos`, `milliseconds`, `seconds`, `hours`, and `days`.
```

> Because `Duration` is time-based, this type can be coerced to a `Number` with different time-based units, such as `nanos`, `milliseconds`, `seconds`, `hours`, and `days`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because a `Duration` value is time-based, it can be coerced to a `Number` value with different time-based units, such as `nanos`, `milliseconds`, `seconds`, `hours`, and `days`.
```

Reviewer 2: If we are including these coersion sections, do we really need to mention "conversion" in the period definitions?

> The following example shows how to coerce a `Duration` to a Number using different units:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to coerce a `Duration` to a `Number` by using different units:
```

> The following example shows how to coerce a `Duration` to a `Number` by using different units:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to coerce a `Duration` value to a `Number` value by using different units:
```

Reviewer 2: Does this topic somewhere describe WHY or under what circumstances a user would want to convert/coerce one type of value to another?

.Source
[source,dataweave,linenums]
----
output application/json
var period = (|2010-12-10T12:10:12| - |2010-09-09T10:02:10|)
---
{
 nanos: period as Number {unit: "nanos"},
 millis: period as Number {unit: "milliseconds"},
 seconds: period as Number {unit: "seconds"},
 hours: period as Number {unit: "hours"},
 days: period as Number {unit: "days"}
}
----

.Output
[source,json,linenums]
----
{
  "nanos": 7956482000000000,
  "millis": 7956482000,
  "seconds": 7956482,
  "hours": 2210,
  "days": 92
}
----

> ==== Deconstruct

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
==== Duration Deconstruction
```

> A `Duration` can be deconstructed in each parts: `hours`, `minutes` and `secs`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `Duration` can be deconstructed into parts: `hours`, `minutes` and `secs`.
```

> A `Duration` can be deconstructed into parts: `hours`, `minutes` and `secs`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A `Duration` can be deconstructed into `hours`, `minutes` and `secs`.
```

Reviewer 2: But why/under what circumstances does a user want or need to do this?
Look at this whole topic set in terms of a user journey rather than functionality description.

> The following example shows how to extract different parts of a `Duration`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to deconstruct a `Duration` value:
```

[[dw_type_null]]
== Null (dw::Core Type)

> DataWeave defines a Null data type for `null` values. It is important to note that `null`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DataWeave defines a `Null` data type for `null` values. It is important to note that `null`
```

is the value, while Null is the type. DataWeave functions do not recognize `Null` as
a `null` value.

You can determine whether a DataWeave function accepts `null` values by
looking in the DataWeave reference documentation for a function signature
that accepts a Null type. For example, the
xref:dw-core-functions-flatten.adoc#flatten2[flatten] function has two function
signatures, one of which is `flatten(Null): Null`. The signature indicates that
`flatten` can accept `null` values. The xref:dw-core-functions-plusplus.adoc[++]

> (concatenate) function, which lacks a signature for handling value so the Null

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(concatenate) function, which lacks a signature for handling value the `Null`
```

xref:dw-core-functions-flatten.adoc#flatten2[flatten] function has two function
signatures, one of which is `flatten(Null): Null`. The signature indicates that
`flatten` can accept `null` values. The xref:dw-core-functions-plusplus.adoc[++]
(concatenate) function, which lacks a signature for handling value so the `Null`

> type, does not accept `null`.

Reviewer 2: The sentence structure is not correct:

"The function, which lacks...FOR HANDLING VALUE SO THE `Null` type, does not...."
